So hi, My name is Brian Caffo,
and I am going to talk about
Shiny Gadgets during this lecture.
I'd like to thank Shaun Cross,
who works with the Data Science Lab here
with us, for preparing these slides.
So, we used to have, we used to
cover a topic called Manipulate.
And manipulate was a little r
package that was produced and
created by our studio for
use in our studio.
For simple interactive and
easy data analysis.
So if you needed some interactive plots or
something like that in the data analysis,
Manipulate was a nice way to do it.
However, they seem to have stopped
developing on Manipulate and
I think I know why.
Because the Shiny environment is just
kind of a better way to do it and
with shiny gadgets,
you can now do the same thing.
Within the the RStudio program and
it basically serves the same function
of what Manipulate used to do.
So, just to discuss.
The Shiny Gadgets is going to provide a
way to just use Shiny's interactivity, but
in data analysis.
So, it's going to be an easier and
quicker way to use it and
it's not going to be
the full web development.
We're going to be using Shiny, for
where we wanted kind of a forward facing
app that other people are going to use.
Shiny Gadgets is more for us or maybe for
a handful of other people that
are working for us on data analysis.
And then, since we are going to
display the app in the small screen
in our studio program.
We're going to use the mini
UI package which gives us,
which helps us create the interfaces for
the smaller screen.
Okay, so I'm going to read
a little bit of this slide,
just because I think
this is the core here.
So, a shiny gadget is a function
that launches a small single page
shiny application In
the RStudio viewer pane.
And again, since they're going to be
viewed in the RStudio viewer pane,
the miniUI package comes in handy.
So what we're going to do next is, we're
going to create a simple shiny gadget.
And then, we're going to reduce it down
to the simplest possible program and
go to the element.
So I'm to switch over and
do a code demonstration now.
Okay, so here I am in our studio.
I've got the simplest
possible shiny gadget that I
grabbed from the code from the slides.
Okay, the first two things that I'm
going to do is make sure Shiny and
mini UI are loaded.
And if you don't have them,
just make sure to do install.packages.
Or you can of course,
add in the patches by clicking your way
to victory up here with the toolbars.
But just do install.packages.
It works for my version of R.
Right now, my version is 3.2.1,
so it's a little bit old.
But I think if you have a really old
version of r, you probably want to update.
Since this is some relatively
new developments from RStudio,
so if you're running a very old
version of R, then just update.
It's pretty easy to do, so
I would go ahead and do that.
So your gadget is going to be a function.
My first gadget here is the R function,
okay.
No arguments right now,
we'll get to that later and
just like a Shiny app, it's got a user
interface and a server function.
So, my UI here says mini page and
that's just the layout we're going to use.
That's from the mini UI library and
so, we have the simplest
possible page that we can create.
All it's going to have is a title bar,
so the command for
adding a title bar element
is gadgetTitleBar.
And let's just call it My First Gadget,
okay now my server is also a function.
And it takes some argument Input,
output and session, okay.
And then,all our server
is going to do now is,
it's just going to check the input for
this variable done, okay.
And use the observe event function for
when that's true to stop the app, okay?
So just, I know this syntax,
Select Shiny is a little bit weird and
a little bit unusual relative to
how we normally program an hour.
But I think once you get used to it,
the one thing you want to make sure
is all the rules about reactivity.
And things like that are going to
carry over from Shiny into our
Shiny gadgets, okay.
And then, we have our function that
is runGadget ui and server, okay.
So, everything is now
contained in this function.
So, I need to source it.
[NOISE] There we go and now, let's run it,
myFirstGadget Bam, okay?
Now, see it says listening.
So, it's created a little web server.
And now,
our studio is rendering the web page and
listening to the server right
here in this viewer pane.
And it just says My First Gadget, so
it doesn't do much right now, but
if you click done, it just brings
you back to the RPrompt there.
Okay, so this is important first step
to getting used to Shiny Gadgets but
as you've already taken and
done some Shiny.
I think a lot of the more complex
ideas and Shiny like activities and
things like that will come very naturally.
As we move further along in Shiny Gadgets.
So what I like everybody do now is,
if we're going on to the next video, just
grab this code from the selection notes.
Run it once, and then we'll move
on to some more complex things.